Pre-learnings before diving deeper into Flutter (#73)
asetalias/blog: content/post/preFlutterhacks.md

![Flutter-meme](https://memecreator.org/static/images/memes/4772258.jpg#center)

## What are your learning approaches?

So, developers try several different things in order to get started with any technology. Few of them quick start from the official documentation and then building apps directly. Then they look for support from community forums or websites like Stack Overflow.  The problem with this approach is that it is time-consuming. The developers have to spend more time in R&D instead of coding properly. Which sometimes came out as very fruitful and it is now more of a conventional but more of an easily available way of approaching.

The other approach is developers plan out what they need to learn and they start the process by building a very basic app. The difference these developers have from the earlier one is these guys have access to quality content. More of a type of courses free/paid but they can start off their journey by the very first day of development. It is a proven fact that VUI and graphical ways of learning are more effective than conventional ways.

> Both of the approaches are good. It depends on you, How you wanna learn and What’s the more effective way you feel. Here in this blog, I will be talking about what are the skill set you require as a newcomer.

Author: Yes, For that I have a different "How I started" section.

> Both of the approaches are good. It depends on you, How you wanna learn and What’s the more effective way you feel. Here in this blog, I will be talking about what are the skill set you require as a newcomer.

Reviewer: Right, think about this from a Stackoverflow perspective. 
There is a problem you are facing. You need a solution fast. 
You read the question. You know you have found the right one. 
And the answer is 10 paths I can take to solve this. Now, would I like a single one way that is tried and tested or 10 paths to go around?

Personally, I would go for both but only if they are together and not in separate sections. What I am talking about is the coherence of how strong your argument is. Explain the problem, Present the facts, Give a conclusion.

## What else needs preparation?

> I have observed myself that I had to look for the same topics again and again while developing any app. As the development in Flutter is divided into two parts, **Screens and Widgets**. Most of the time building any application your development will run around these two major areas. But there are several other concepts and skills a developer should be aware of are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the course of learning Flutter, I observed that to be looking at the same topics time after time while developing the application. One needs to realize that development in Flutter is divided into two parts, **Screens** and **Widgets**. Most of the time in the development cycle is spent on these two major areas. But there are several other concepts at play here and skills developers should be aware of such as:
```

Start paragraphs with a statement, rather than continuation from the last one.
Take care of tenses in a sentence and trim what isn't needed from the paragraph on your second review.

- Basics of rendering a screen with the help of MaterialApp, Scaffold and AppBar.
- What are Forms and Lists in Flutter?
- How the Flutter SDK compiles the same code for both iOS and Android platforms.

> - Basics of Android(Not necessarily but it will help) and experience with Object-oriented programing will help for sure.

Reviewer: Some links for specific topics that helped you would be really nice.

## How I started ??

I am working with Flutter around for a year. I have started with the very same word that is most important for Flutter developers i.e. Widgets. I started using few basics widgets untill they boosted my confidence up and put me in a situation where I can appreciate my development skills on my own.

There is a pool of widgets supported by Flutter today but **the key is to focus on the basic ones first**. I am suggesting a starter list which worked for me and I am sure it will work for you as a beginner:

- MaterialApp, Scaffold and AppBar
- Layout using Row & Column.
- Text and Image widgets.
- Containers and Padding, specifically the alignment.

> Yes, this is the most basic list a newcomer should cover before diving into deeper topics. Trust me you don't even realise how this basic approach will make you achieve.

Reviewer: Refactor this content into the topics above and change the questions you are asking to accommodate those changes. You go something like this. **Optional**
```
**Why to X?**

You begin to explain X, 
The importance of X in Flutter, 
How you learned or did X and from where did you do it from.
```

## My Opinion

Learn from where you want but don't spend your time in searching and seeing. Focus on writing dead simple apps first with minimal of functionalities and you can keep on adding features as you dive more into Flutter. 

In short **Learn, Code, Build, Start Learning again.**

Finally, you all made it to the end.
![Thank-you](https://data.whicdn.com/images/330784577/original.gif#center)

Connect with me:

> [Github](https://github.com/Kaushl2208) | [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kaushlendra-pratap-a523b9170/) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Kaushl1998) | [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/kaushlendra.pratap.52)

Reviewer: I expect at least to see a customized LinkedIn profile link from all of you.

Something like - https://www.linkedin.com/in/vipulgupta2048/ and not gibberish numbers. This is good to remember, not that.
